You know, when I was a kid, you went out and you got a job and you worked at that job your entire lifetime. You got your health care, you got your retirement and everything was good.
Today, you could be a 51-year-old man and one day after serving and doing everything the right way, somebody walks into your office and says, I’m sorry, but we don’t need you anymore.
Can you imagine that conversation?
Could you imagine that dad when he is driving home or that mom when she is driving home?
They lose confidence. They wonder what their future is.
Can they get another job?
Can they support their family?
Will anybody be there to help them?
Or how about moms and dads today?
They send their kids to college, many of these young people ringing up massive amounts of debt trying to get an education and they are living in the attic and Mom and Dad are wondering, will they get a job?
Will they pay their bills?
What kind of a future are they going to have?
Or, at the same time, we can also think about what all of us fear greatly and that is the problems of bad health.
Can I afford those expensive drugs that I need to survive?
What is it going to cost me to get treatment, just not for myself but for one of the loved ones in my family?
Will I be bankrupted and lose everything I have, everything I’ve worked for?
It’s a real fear.
Or the fear of the tsunami of drugs — it’s everywhere, isn’t it? The kids that are here and there are many of them, don’t do drugs, don’t put that big 1,000-pound pack on your back and keep you from your God-given purpose. But all moms and dads worry that those drugs are going to wash away our own neighborhoods and maybe wash away our children.
And how about those that struggle to make ends meet?
There are some people just say, oh, well, just work harder or pull yourself up by your bootstraps. I believe in all that. Some people just don’t have the fortune that many of us have. And they struggle. They struggle for a whole lifetime and they worry, that can they rise?
Can they — can they pull the rest of their family members up the ladder, the promise of America? And they worry about it.
Or how about if you are a member of the minority community, an African American?
You wonder. The system, I think, sometimes doesn’t just work for me but sometimes I feel like that system works against me. And you think about the troubles that many of our African Americans still face today in a world where we have worked to provide equal rights and opportunities. Sometimes they are not so sure and I don’t blame them.
Or how about all of us? We pick up the paper. It’s Chattanooga, it’s Fort Hood, it’s ISIS.
Are we safe?
Are we going to be safe to go to the mall?
Are we safe to leave our homes?
These are the worries that many Americans have.
But I have to tell you, as serious as these are — and they are very serious — we have had a lot worse, much worse in this country.
Think about it, the civil war.
You remember reading about it? I mean, it’s not just neighbors fighting against neighbors, but it was even family members, kin fighting against one another and killing one another on a battlefield right in America.
How about the racial violence that we experienced in this country?
The early days of television when they put the dogs and the gas and the batons on people of another color. Or the world wars, where many in our families never came home, leaving widows and children without a dad. Or the Depression, the Depression. Ask your grandfather, ask your mom and dad about that depression.
