I have a message for the voters in the remaining states.  I hear your cries.  I understand your anger at the establishment.  I’m angry too, that’s why I fought the establishment in my own party on issues like Obamacare, illegal immigration, and spending.

I get why so many people have voted for Donald Trump.  It was their way of sending a message to the establishment, and for some, it was just a fun idea to have a businessman and reality tv star as a potential president.

But the voters of Wisconsin have spoken, and they’ve sent a resounding message to the rest of the nation:   The Trump experiment is over.  It was fun while it lasted, but the voters have given him a chance, and over the past few weeks he’s proven to us beyond a shadow of a doubt that he’s unprepared to be president and commander in chief, in terms of knowledge, temperament, and character.

Whether it was his response to the terror attack in Belgium, whether it was his confused answer to a question on abortion, whether it was his horrible attacks on the character of a female reporter who was assaulted by his own campaign manager, or whether it was his attacks on my own wife Heidi, Donald Trump has revealed to the nation what kind of president he would be if he were elected, and I think I speak for everyone when I say that’s not the kind of person we want representing our nation in the White House.

Furthermore, the women of Wisconsin have sent a resounding message of their own:  We will not vote for a man who disrespects women and who doesn’t value or honor them.

The experiment is over.  It’s time to get serious, and to get behind a serious candidate for president.  I intend to be that serious candidate, and I hope you’ll join me in fighting for conservative values and principles on the road to winning this nomination.

Civility, decency, honor, and integrity still matter in politics.  I told you before that I was angry, but I’m also optimistic and hopeful.  Why?  Because so many people around this country, just like the people of Wisconsin, are beginning to realize how important this election is, and they’re doing their part to make their voices heard and stand for freedom and the ideas and principles that made this nation great.

I’m here to tell you that we’ve proven the cynics wrong, and we’ll continue to prove them wrong.  A serious candidate for president can still win without going into the gutter, and without bringing out the worst in people, while instead running a campaign that brings out the best in people.

If you’re listening to this speech right now and you live in a state that hasn’t voted yet, and you haven’t decided on who to vote for, I have a message for you:

Donald’s appeal to many people is that he’s a winner who wins, and therefore he’ll make sure we win as a country again.  You might be thinking of voting for him for that reason, even if you don’t agree with his policies or think he isn’t exactly the most qualified candidate.

But Donald just lost.  Moreover, in every poll he loses to Hillary Clinton, often badly, by double digits.  If you wanna vote for a winner, I’m the candidate who can win, not only against Donald in this primary battle, but against Hillary in the general, where polls show me beating her.

The governor of this great state, Governor Scott Walker, often says it’s not enough to just be against something, we have to be for something, and I agree wholeheartedly.

 

So what are we fighting for?  We’re fighting for restoring the Bill of Rights and the Constitution to their proper place in our system of gov’t.  We’re fighting for the Judeo-Christian values that this nation was founded on.  We’re fighting for policies that reduce the size of the federal gov’t and put power back in the hands of the people.  Most of all, we’re fighting for freedom, and the rights of law abiding citizens that have been taken away under the oppressive laws and regulations of the Obama administration.

 

There’s one major difference between my campaign and Donald Trump’s campaign.  If someone wants to vote for Donald, they have one reason-  Donald Trump.  It’s all about him.

My campaign isn’t about me.  This is much bigger than me.  This is about helping the people who are forgotten in our society-  the single moms who can’t get jobs because of Obamacare, the black and hispanic kids who can’t get a proper education because they aren’t allowed to go to a good school that their parents choose for them, the steel worker who’s had his wages or hours cut because of illegal immigrants taking his hours, or because companies are shipping jobs overseas.

These are the people a massive and incompetent federal gov’t can’t reach.  But if we send money back to state and local governments, and ultimately back to every citizen through various policies and programs like health savings accounts, a flat tax, and other programs that will block grant money from the federal gov’t back to state and local gov’ts, we will empower individual citizens to live the life they’ve always wanted to live, and to fulfill their goals and dreams.

My campaign isn’t about me.  That’s why I’m looking to earn your vote, and you don’t have to agree with me on every issue, or even on many issues, to stand with me.  If you value your freedom, if you want this country to be kept safe from radical islamic terrorists, and if you want an abundance of jobs and new opportunity in this country, I’m your guy.

You don’t have to share my values-  so whether you’re Christian, Muslim, Jewish, or even an atheist, I welcome your support.  If you’re black, hispanic, asian, or any other minority, and you aren’t sure who to vote for, I welcome your support.

I wanna be the president of all americans, not just the ones who like me or share my values.  Even if you don’t like me, or I wasn’t your first choice, I’m asking for your vote, because the alternative is Donald Trump, and as the polls show, a vote for Trump in the primary is equivalent to a vote for Hillary in the general.

It’s time for conservatives to come together, to put aside our differences and petty squabbles that have occupied far too much of our time and energy this primary season, and to unite under a common cause.

I wanna be your nominee, and then God willing, your president.  I intend to work hard every day to earn every vote.  I won’t take one vote for granted, and I’m not leaving anyone behind.

We’ve had seven long years of a divider as president, we don’t need another one.  As president, I will unite this country under the banner of the Constitution and the values and principles that made us the greatest nation in the world.  We can be that great nation again if we return to those values and principles, and if we put the people first.

I’m running for president to serve you, not the other way around.  If you help me win this nomination and then the general election, I’ll turn the status quo in Washington DC upside down, and I’ll take all the power currently held by the establishment, the elites, and the corrupt and incompetent bureaucrats, and I’ll give it to you.

I wanna thank the people of Wisconsin for sending a resounding message to the powers that be and to the rest of the country that the conservative movement is alive and well in this country, and that we’re ready to take back our party and our country from the elites and insiders who created this mess in the first place.

Now it’s time to continue onward, to win in the remaining states, to win the nomination at the convention, and then to win the general election in November. I humbly ask for your help and support in the days ahead, and I know that together, we can shock the world and prove that honesty, civility, big ideas, and conservative principles still matter to republican voters in America.

Let’s continue to fight for the future of our kids and grandkids, and to show the powers that be that we aren’t afraid to stand up for the values and principles we believe in.

God bless Wisconsin and God bless America.

